Title: Discovery of Non Thermal X-Rays from the Northwest Shell of the New SNR
  RX J1713.7-3946: The Second SN1006 ?
Summary:   We report ASCA results of a featureless X-ray spectrum from RX J1713.7-3946,
a new shell-like SNR discovered with the ROSAT all sky survey. The northwest
part of RX J1713.7-3946 was in the field of the ASCA Galactic Plane Survey
Project and was found to exhibit a shell-like structure. The spectrum, however
shows neither line emission nor any signature of a thermal origin. Instead, a
power-law model with a photon index of 2.4-2.5 gives reasonable fit to the
spectrum, suggesting a non-thermal origin. Together with the similarity to
SN1006, we propose that RX J1713.7-3946 is the second example, after SN1006, of
a synchrotron X-ray radiation from a shell of SNRs. Since the synchrotron
X-rays suggest existence of extremely high energy charged particles in the SNR
shell, our discovery should have strong impact on the origin of the cosmic
X-rays.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/9704140v2
Authors: Katsuji Koyama, Kenzo Kinugasa, Keiichi Matsuzaki, Mamiko Nishiuchi, Mutusmi Sugizaki, Ken'ichi Torii, Shigeo Yamauchi, Bernd Aschenbach
Published Date: 1997-04-15T02:13:18Z

Title: The Impact of Net Culture on Mainstream Societies: a Global Analysis
Summary:   In this work the impact of the Internet culture on standard mainstream
societies has been analyzed. After analytically establishing the fact that the
Net can be viewed as a pan-societal superstructure which supports its own
distinct culture, an ethnographic analysis is provided to find out the key
aspects of this culture. The elements of this culture which have an empowering
impacts on the standard mainstream societies, as well as the elements in it
which can cause discouraging social effects are then discussed by a global
investigation of the present status of various fundamental aspects (e,g,
education, economics, politics, entertainment etc) of the mainstream societies
as well as their links with the Net culture. Though immensely potential for
providing various prominent positive impacts, the key findings of this work
indicate that misuse of Internet can create tremendous harm to the members of
the mainstream societies by generating a set of morally crippled people as well
as a future generation completely void of principles and ethics. This
structured diagnostic approach to the social problems caused by the manhandling
of Internet leads to a concrete effort of providing the measures that can be
taken to enhance or to overcome the supporting and limiting effects of the Net
culture respectively with the intent to benefit our society and to protect the
teratoidation of certain ethical values.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/9903013v1
Authors: Tapas Kumar Das
Published Date: 1999-03-18T17:01:27Z

Title: L'ordinateur quantique
Summary:   Project of an undergraduate student in physics (4th year) about the concept
of quantum computers (QC) and its social impact. After a thourough theoretical
introduction (chap. 2), the recent debate about NMR-based QC is dealt with in
detail (chap. 3). Chapter 4 comments on the figure of the number of articles
published on the subject, showing the dramatic growth after the publication of
Shor's algorithm.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003132v1
Authors: Denis Crottet
Published Date: 2000-03-29T09:15:22Z

Title: Phase transitions in social impact models of opinion formation
Summary:   We study phase transitions in models of opinion formation which are based on
the social impact theory. Two different models are discussed: (i) a
cellular--automata based model of a finite group with a strong leader where
persons can change their opinions but not their spatial positions, and (ii) a
model with persons treated as active Brownian particles interacting via a
communication field. In the first model, two stable phases are possible: a
cluster around the leader, and a state of social unification. The transition
into the second state occurs for a large leader strength and/or for a high
level of social noise. In the second model, we find three stable phases, which
correspond either to a ``paramagnetic'' phase (for high noise and strong
diffusion), a ``ferromagnetic'' phase (for small nose and weak diffusion), or a
phase with spatially separated ``domains'' (for intermediate conditions).

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0004026v1
Authors: Janusz A. Holyst, Krzysztof Kacperski, Frank Schweitzer
Published Date: 2000-04-03T16:14:35Z

Title: Computer based Information Systems and Managers' Work
Summary:   This paper identifies three categories of model: the Technology Impact Model;
the Social Impact Model and the Integrationist Model, which imply different
views of the "impact" of Information Technology on work organisation. These
models are used to structure data from case studies conducted by the authors to
explore the implications of the use of computer-based information systems for
managers' work. The paper argues that the "impact" of information systems is
not a single stable and predictable outcome but a non-linear ongoing process
that changes and evolves over time. It also argues that the actions of
individuals and groups within an organisation are not wholly determined by
outside forces: people can and do react to, and shape, systems in different
ways. In this sense, the "impact" of computer-based information systems on
managers' work reflects decisions made by managers themselves about how the
technology is used.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0102029v1
Authors: Chris Kimble, Kevin McLoughlin
Published Date: 2001-02-26T15:45:03Z

Title: Ego-centered networks and the ripple effect
Summary:   Recent work has demonstrated that many social networks, and indeed many
networks of other types also, have broad distributions of vertex degree. Here
we show that this has a substantial impact on the shape of ego-centered
networks, i.e., sets of network vertices that are within a given distance of a
specified central vertex, the ego. This in turn affects concepts and methods
based on ego-centered networks, such as snowball sampling and the "ripple
effect". In particular, we argue that one's acquaintances, one's immediate
neighbors in the acquaintance network, are far from being a random sample of
the population, and that this biases the numbers of neighbors two and more
steps away. We demonstrate this concept using data drawn from academic
collaboration networks, for which, as we show, current simple theories for the
typical size of ego-centered networks give numbers that differ greatly from
those measured in reality. We present an improved theoretical model which gives
significantly better results.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111070v1
Authors: M. E. J. Newman
Published Date: 2001-11-05T22:58:15Z

Title: Words for Nobel prizes
Summary:   We present the statistics of the significant nouns and adjectives of social
impact figuring in the nominations of the Nobel prizes in Physics and Chemistry
over the period of the awards from 1901 to 2001

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0203076v1
Authors: J. M. Moran-Mirabal, H. C. Rosu
Published Date: 2002-03-26T18:40:02Z

Title: Electoral surveys influence on the voting processes: a cellular automata
  model
Summary:   Nowadays, in societies threatened by atomization, selfishness, short-term
thinking, and alienation from political life, there is a renewed debate about
classical questions concerning the quality of democratic decision-making. In
this work a cellular automata (CA) model for the dynamics of free elections
based on the social impact theory is proposed. By using computer simulations,
power law distributions for the size of electoral clusters and decision time
have been obtained. The major role of broadcasted electoral surveys in guiding
opinion formation and stabilizing the ``{\it status quo}'' was demonstrated.
Furthermore, it was shown that in societies where these surveys are manipulated
within the universally accepted statistical error bars, even a majoritary
opposition could be hindered from reaching the power through the electoral
path.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0204139v1
Authors: S. G. Alves, N. M. Oliveira Neto, M. L. Martins
Published Date: 2002-04-05T14:42:59Z

Title: Endogeneous Versus Exogeneous Shocks in Systems with Memory
Summary:   Systems with long-range persistence and memory are shown to exhibit different
precursory as well as recovery patterns in response to shocks of exogeneous
versus endogeneous origins. By endogeneous, we envision either fluctuations
resulting from an underlying chaotic dynamics or from a stochastic forcing
origin which may be external or be an effective coarse-grained description of
the microscopic fluctuations. In this scenario, endogeneous shocks result from
a kind of constructive interference of accumulated fluctuations whose impacts
survive longer than the large shocks themselves. As a consequence, the recovery
after an endogeneous shock is in general slower at early times and can be at
long times either slower or faster than after an exogeneous perturbation. This
offers the tantalizing possibility of distinguishing between an endogeneous
versus exogeneous cause of a given shock, even when there is no ``smoking
gun.'' This could help in investigating the exogeneous versus self-organized
origins in problems such as the causes of major biological extinctions, of
change of weather regimes and of the climate, in tracing the source of social
upheaval and wars, and so on. Sornette, Malevergne and Muzy have already shown
how this concept can be applied concretely to differentiate the effects on
financial markets of the Sept. 11, 2001 attack or of the coup against Gorbachev
on Aug., 19, 1991 (exogeneous) from financial crashes such as Oct. 1987
(endogeneous).

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206047v1
Authors: D. Sornette, A. Helmstetter
Published Date: 2002-06-05T03:40:12Z

Title: Spatial Structure of the Internet Traffic
Summary:   The Internet infrastructure is not virtual: its distribution is dictated by
social, geographical, economical, or political constraints. However, the
infrastructure's design does not determine entirely the information traffic and
different sources of complexity such as the intrinsic heterogeneity of the
network or human practices have to be taken into account. In order to manage
the Internet expansion, plan new connections or optimize the existing ones, it
is thus critical to understand correlations between emergent global statistical
patterns of Internet activity and human factors. We analyze data from the
French national `Renater' network which has about two millions users and which
consists in about 30 interconnected routers located in different regions of
France and we report the following results. The Internet flow is strongly
localized: most of the traffic takes place on a `spanning' network connecting a
small number of routers which can be classified either as `active centers'
looking for information or `databases' providing information. We also show that
the Internet activity of a region increases with the number of published papers
by laboratories of that region, demonstrating the positive impact of the Web on
scientific activity and illustrating quantitatively the adage `the more you
read, the more you write'.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0208553v1
Authors: Marc Barthelemy, Bernard Gondran, Eric Guichard
Published Date: 2002-08-28T12:52:58Z

Title: Resilience reconsidered: Case histories from disease ecology
Summary:   We expand the current understanding of ecological resilience to include the
nested hierarchy of cognitive submodules that particularly, if not uniquely,
delineates human ecosystems. These modules, ranging from the immune system to
the local social network, are embedded in a cultural milieu which, to take the
perspective of the evolutionary anthropologist Robert Boyd, ''is as much a part
of human biology as the enamel on our teeth''. We begin by extending recent
treatments of cognitive process as associated with characteristic information
sources to a certain class of ecosystems through a generalization of
coarse-graining. In the spirit of the Large Deviations Program, we then import
renormalization formalism via the Asymptotic Equipartition Theorem to obtain
punctuated response to parameters of increasing habitat degradation. A Legendre
transform of an appropriate joint information permits analysis away from
critical points, and generates the expected quasi-stability in a highly natural
manner. We interweave the discussion with applications to the public health
impacts of the massive deurbanization and deindustrialization presently
afflicting the United States.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0310009v2
Authors: Rodrick Wallace, Deborah Wallace
Published Date: 2003-10-09T18:16:01Z

Title: Effects of missing data in social networks
Summary:   We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact of missing data on the
structural properties of social networks. The social network is conceived of as
being generated by a bipartite graph, in which actors are linked together via
multiple interaction contexts or affiliations. We discuss three principal
missing data mechanisms: network boundary specification (non-inclusion of
actors or affiliations), survey non-response, and censoring by vertex degree
(fixed choice design), examining their impact on the scientific collaboration
network from the Los Alamos E-print Archive as well as random bipartite graphs.
The results show that network boundary specification and fixed choice designs
can dramatically alter estimates of network-level statistics. The observed
clustering and assortativity coefficients are overestimated via omission of
interaction contexts (affiliations) or fixed choice of affiliations, and
underestimated via actor non-response, which results in inflated measurement
error. We also find that social networks with multiple interaction contexts
have certain surprising properties due to the presence of overlapping cliques.
In particular, assortativity by degree does not necessarily improve network
robustness to random omission of nodes as predicted by current theory.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0306335v2
Authors: Gueorgi Kossinets
Published Date: 2003-06-12T19:38:15Z

Title: ICT-based planning and the missing educational link
Summary:   The past century ended with an unexpected explosion of Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT), both in planning/managing public policies,
and in exchanging knowledge. However, the extent to which ICT-based tools
increase the level of public knowledge, or help decision makers is still
uncertain. Although indirectly, the overload of unfiltered Web-based
information seems able to hamper the knowledge growth of people, particularly
in some developing communities, whereas Decision Support Systems (DSS) and
Geographical Information Systems (GIS) prove to be ineffective if managed by
unskilled planning bodies. Given such warns, this paper outlines how the
different social and cultural awareness of local communities can affect the
outcomes of ICT-based tools. It further explores the impacts of ICT-based tools
on community development and spatial planning, emphasizing the role of proper
literacy and education for effective management.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0312021v1
Authors: Domenico Camarda
Published Date: 2003-12-12T11:36:09Z

Title: Predictability of large future changes in major financial indices
Summary:   We present a systematic algorithm testing for the existence of collective
self-organization in the behavior of agents in social systems, with a concrete
empirical implementation on the Dow Jones Industrial Average index (DJIA) over
the 20th century and on Hong Kong Hang Seng composite index (HSI) since 1969.
The algorithm combines ideas from critical phenomena, the impact of agents'
expectation, multi-scale analysis and the mathematical method of pattern
recognition of sparse data. Trained on the three major crashes in DJIA of the
century, our algorithm exhibits a remarkable ability for generalization and
detects in advance 8 other significant drops or changes of regimes. An
application to HSI gives promising results as well. The results are robust with
respect to the variations of the recognition algorithm. We quantify the
prediction procedure with error diagrams.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304601v3
Authors: D. Sornette, W. -X. Zhou
Published Date: 2003-04-26T06:49:20Z

Title: Demo or Practice: Critical Analysis of the Language/Action Perspective
Summary:   Despite offering several promising concepts, the Language/Action Perspective
(LAP) is still not in the mainstream of Information Systems Development (ISD).
Since at present there is only a limited understanding of LAP theory and
practice, it remains unclear whether the lack of LAP's impact is due to
shortcomings in LAP theory itself. One classic problem within ISD is the
dichotomy between social perspectives and technical perspectives. LAP claims it
offers a solution to this problem. This paper investigates this claim as a
means to review LAP theory. To provide a structure to a critical analysis of
DEMO - an example methodology that belongs to the LAP research community - this
paper utilizes a paradigmatic framework. This framework is augmented by the
opinion of several DEMO practitioners by means of an expert discussion. With
use of a comparative evaluation of LAP theory and DEMO theory, the implication
of DEMO's reflection upon LAP is determined. The paper concludes by outlining
an agenda for further research if LAP is to improve its footprint in the field.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0410006v1
Authors: Mark Dumay
Published Date: 2004-10-03T20:03:17Z

Title: Suicide: the key role of short range ties
Summary:   The paper explores the connection between short-range social ties (i.e. links
with close relatives) and the occurrence of suicide. The objective is to
discriminate between a model based on social ties and a model based on
psychological traumas. Our methodological strategy is to focus on instances
characterized by the severance of some social ties. We consider several
situations of this kind. (i) Prisoners in the first days after their
incarceration. (ii) Prisoners in solitary confinement. (iii) Prisoners who are
transferred from one prison to another. (iv) Prisoners in closed versus open
prisons. (v) Prisoners in the weeks following their release. (vi) Immigrants in
the years following their relocation. (vii) Unmarried versus married people.
  Furthermore, in order to test the impact of major shocks we consider the
responses in terms of suicides to the following shocks. (i) The attack of
September 11, 2001 in Manhattan. (ii) The Korean War. (iii) The two world wars.
(iv) The Great Depression in the United States. (v) The hyperinflation episode
of 1923 in Germany. Major global traumatic shocks such as 9/11 or wars have no
influence on suicide rates once changing environment conditions have been
controlled for.
  Overall, it turns out that the observations have a natural interpretation in
terms of short-range ties. In contrast, the trauma model seems unable to
adequately account for many observations.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0502047v1
Authors: Bertrand M. Roehner
Published Date: 2005-02-09T16:35:51Z

Title: Toward alternative metrics of journal impact: A comparison of download
  and citation data
Summary:   We generated networks of journal relationships from citation and download
data, and determined journal impact rankings from these networks using a set of
social network centrality metrics. The resulting journal impact rankings were
compared to the ISI IF. Results indicate that, although social network metrics
and ISI IF rankings deviate moderately for citation-based journal networks,
they differ considerably for journal networks derived from download data. We
believe the results represent a unique aspect of general journal impact that is
not captured by the ISI IF. These results furthermore raise questions regarding
the validity of the ISI IF as the sole assessment of journal impact, and
suggest the possibility of devising impact metrics based on usage information
in general.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0503007v1
Authors: Johan Bollen, Herbert Van de Sompel, Joan Smith, Rick Luce
Published Date: 2005-03-03T05:14:47Z

Title: How Far Can We Go Through Social System?: Algorithmic Information Social
  Theories
Summary:   The paper elaborates an endeavor on applying the algorithmic
information-theoretic computational complexity to meta-social-sciences. It is
motivated by the effort on seeking the impact of the well-known incompleteness
theorem to the scientific methodology approaching social phenomena. The paper
uses the binary string as the model of social phenomena to gain understanding
on some problems faced in the philosophy of social sciences or some traps in
sociological theories. The paper ends on showing the great opportunity in
recent social researches and some boundaries that limit them.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0503040v1
Authors: Hokky Situngkir
Published Date: 2005-03-16T20:28:33Z

Title: Importance of Positive Feedbacks and Over-confidence in a
  Self-Fulfilling Ising Model of Financial Markets
Summary:   Following a long tradition of physicists who have noticed that the Ising
model provides a general background to build realistic models of social
interactions, we study a model of financial price dynamics resulting from the
collective aggregate decisions of agents. This model incorporates imitation,
the impact of external news and private information. It has the structure of a
dynamical Ising model in which agents have two opinions (buy or sell) with
coupling coefficients which evolve in time with a memory of how past news have
explained realized market returns. We study two versions of the model, which
differ on how the agents interpret the predictive power of news. We show that
the stylized facts of financial markets are reproduced only when agents are
over-confident and mis-attribute the success of news to predict return to
herding effects, thereby providing positive feedbacks leading to the model
functioning close to the critical point. Our model exhibits a rich multifractal
structure characterized by a continuous spectrum of exponents of the power law
relaxation of endogenous bursts of volatility, in good agreement with previous
analytical predictions obtained with the multifractal random walk model and
with empirical facts.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503607v2
Authors: Didier Sornette, Wei-Xing Zhou
Published Date: 2005-03-25T00:34:57Z

Title: Co-Authorship Networks in the Digital Library Research Community
Summary:   The field of digital libraries (DLs) coalesced in 1994: the first digital
library conferences were held that year, awareness of the World Wide Web was
accelerating, and the National Science Foundation awarded $24 Million (U.S.)
for the Digital Library Initiative (DLI). In this paper we examine the state of
the DL domain after a decade of activity by applying social network analysis to
the co-authorship network of the past ACM, IEEE, and joint ACM/IEEE digital
library conferences. We base our analysis on a common binary undirectional
network model to represent the co-authorship network, and from it we extract
several established network measures. We also introduce a weighted directional
network model to represent the co-authorship network, for which we define
$AuthorRank$ as an indicator of the impact of an individual author in the
network. The results are validated against conference program committee members
in the same period. The results show clear advantages of PageRank and
AuthorRank over degree, closeness and betweenness centrality metrics. We also
investigate the amount and nature of international participation in Joint
Conference on Digital Libraries (JCDL).

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0502056v2
Authors: Xiaoming Liu, Johan Bollen, Michael L. Nelson, Herbert Van de Sompel
Published Date: 2005-02-12T00:08:57Z

Title: Spontaneous emergence of contrarian-like behaviour in an opinion
  spreading model
Summary:   We introduce stochastic driving in the Sznajd model of opinion spreading.
This stochastic effect is meant to mimic a social temperature, so that agents
can take random decisions with a varying probability. We show that a stochastic
driving has a tremendous impact on the system dynamics as a whole by inducing
an order-disorder nonequilibrium phase transition. Interestingly, under certain
conditions, this stochastic dynamics can spontaneously lead to agents in the
system who are analogous to Galam's contarians.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508029v1
Authors: Marta S. de la Lama, Juan M. Lopez, Horacio S. Wio
Published Date: 2005-08-03T16:23:21Z

Title: Outlier Detection by Logic Programming
Summary:   The development of effective knowledge discovery techniques has become in the
recent few years a very active research area due to the important impact it has
in several relevant application areas. One interesting task thereof is that of
singling out anomalous individuals from a given population, e.g., to detect
rare events in time-series analysis settings, or to identify objects whose
behavior is deviant w.r.t. a codified standard set of "social" rules. Such
exceptional individuals are usually referred to as outliers in the literature.
  Recently, outlier detection has also emerged as a relevant KR&R problem. In
this paper, we formally state the concept of outliers by generalizing in
several respects an approach recently proposed in the context of default logic,
for instance, by having outliers not being restricted to single individuals
but, rather, in the more general case, to correspond to entire (sub)theories.
We do that within the context of logic programming and, mainly through
examples, we discuss its potential practical impact in applications. The
formalization we propose is a novel one and helps in shedding some light on the
real nature of outliers. Moreover, as a major contribution of this work, we
illustrate the exploitation of minimality criteria in outlier detection. The
computational complexity of outlier detection problems arising in this novel
setting is thoroughly investigated and accounted for in the paper as well.
Finally, we also propose a rewriting algorithm that transforms any outlier
detection problem into an equivalent inference problem under the stable model
semantics, thereby making outlier computation effective and realizable on top
of any stable model solver.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0409019v2
Authors: Fabrizio Angiulli, Gianluigi Greco, Luigi Palopoli
Published Date: 2004-09-09T14:20:02Z

Title: The Impact of Social Networks on Multi-Agent Recommender Systems
Summary:   Awerbuch et al.'s approach to distributed recommender systems (DRSs) is to
have agents sample products at random while randomly querying one another for
the best item they have found; we improve upon this by adding a communication
network. Agents can only communicate with their immediate neighbors in the
network, but neighboring agents may or may not represent users with common
interests. We define two network structures: in the ``mailing-list model,''
agents representing similar users form cliques, while in the ``word-of-mouth
model'' the agents are distributed randomly in a scale-free network (SFN). In
both models, agents tell their neighbors about satisfactory products as they
are found. In the word-of-mouth model, knowledge of items propagates only
through interested agents, and the SFN parameters affect the system's
performance. We include a summary of our new results on the character and
parameters of random subgraphs of SFNs, in particular SFNs with power-law
degree distributions down to minimum degree 1. These networks are not as
resilient as Cohen et al. originally suggested. In the case of the widely-cited
``Internet resilience'' result, high failure rates actually lead to the
orphaning of half of the surviving nodes after 60% of the network has failed
and the complete disintegration of the network at 90%. We show that given an
appropriate network, the communication network reduces the number of sampled
items, the number of messages sent, and the amount of ``spam.'' We conclude
that in many cases DRSs will be useful for sharing information in a multi-agent
learning system.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0511011v1
Authors: Hamilton Link, Jared Saia, Terran Lane, Randall A. LaViolette
Published Date: 2005-11-02T23:44:34Z

Title: Journal Status
Summary:   The status of an actor in a social context is commonly defined in terms of
two factors: the total number of endorsements the actor receives from other
actors and the prestige of the endorsing actors. These two factors indicate the
distinction between popularity and expert appreciation of the actor,
respectively. We refer to the former as popularity and to the latter as
prestige. These notions of popularity and prestige also apply to the domain of
scholarly assessment. The ISI Impact Factor (ISI IF) is defined as the mean
number of citations a journal receives over a 2 year period. By merely counting
the amount of citations and disregarding the prestige of the citing journals,
the ISI IF is a metric of popularity, not of prestige. We demonstrate how a
weighted version of the popular PageRank algorithm can be used to obtain a
metric that reflects prestige. We contrast the rankings of journals according
to their ISI IF and their weighted PageRank, and we provide an analysis that
reveals both significant overlaps and differences. Furthermore, we introduce
the Y-factor which is a simple combination of both the ISI IF and the weighted
PageRank, and find that the resulting journal rankings correspond well to a
general understanding of journal status.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0601030v1
Authors: Johan Bollen, Marko A. Rodriguez, Herbert Van de Sompel
Published Date: 2006-01-09T16:56:01Z

Title: Fuzzy Cognitive Maps Of Local People Impacted By Dam Construction: Their
  Demands Regarding Resettlement
Summary:   Fuzzy cognitive mapping was used to understand the wants and desires of local
people before resettlement. Variables that the affected people think will
increase their welfare during and after dam construction were determined.
Simulations were done with their cumulative social cognitive map to determine
which policy options would most increase their welfare. The construction of
roads, job opportunities, advance payment of condemnation value, and schools
are central variables that had the most effect on increasing people's income
and welfare. The synergistic effects of variables demonstrated that the
implementation of different policies not only add cumulatively to the people's
welfare but also have an increased effect.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0601032v1
Authors: Uygar Ozesmi
Published Date: 2006-01-21T19:20:07Z

Title: Ferromagnetic fluid as a model of social impact
Summary:   The paper proposes a new model of spin dynamics which can be treated as a
model of sociological coupling between individuals. Our approach takes into
account two different human features: gregariousness and individuality. We will
show how they affect a psychological distance between individuals and how the
distance changes the opinion formation in a social group. Apart from its
sociological aplications the model displays the variety of other interesting
phenomena like self-organizing ferromagnetic state or a second order phase
transition and can be studied from different points of view, e.g. as a model of
ferromagnetic fluid, complex evolving network or multiplicative random process.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0603248v1
Authors: Piotr Fronczak, Agata Fronczak, Janusz A. Hołyst
Published Date: 2006-03-29T10:09:27Z

Title: Efficient generation of rotating workforce schedules
Summary:   Generating high-quality schedules for a rotating workforce is a critical task
in all settings where a certain staffing level must be guaranteed beyond the
capacity of single employees, such as for instance in industrial plants,
hospitals, or airline companies. Results from ergonomics \cite{BEST91} indicate
that rotating workforce schedules have a profound impact on the health and
social life of employees as well as on their performance at work. Moreover,
rotating workforce schedules must satisfy legal requirements and should also
meet the objectives of the employing organization. We describe our solution to
this problem. A basic design decision was to aim at quickly obtaining
high-quality schedules for realistically sized problems while maintaining human
control. The interaction between the decision maker and the algorithm therefore
consists in four steps: (1) choosing a set of lengths of work blocks (a work
block is a sequence of consecutive days of work shifts), (2) choosing a
particular sequence of work and days-off blocks among those that have optimal
weekend characteristics, (3) enumerating possible shift sequences for the
chosen work blocks subject to shift change constraints and bounds on sequences
of shifts, and (4) assignment of shift sequences to work blocks while
fulfilling the staffing requirements. The combination of constraint
satisfaction and problem-oriented intelligent backtracking algorithms in each
of the four steps allows to find good solutions for real-world problems in
acceptable time. Computational results from real-world problems and from
benchmark examples found in the literature confirm the viability of our
approach. The algorithms are now part of a commercial shift scheduling software
package.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0002018v2
Authors: Nysret Musliu, Johannes Gaertner, Wolfgang Slany
Published Date: 2000-02-29T16:56:46Z

Title: Modeling hierarchical structures - Hierarchical Linear Modeling using
  MPlus
Summary:   The aim of this paper is to present the technique (and its linkage with
physics) of overcoming problems connected to modeling social structures, which
are typically hierarchical. Hierarchical Linear Models provide a conceptual and
statistical mechanism for drawing conclusions regarding the influence of
phenomena at different levels of analysis. In the social sciences it is used to
analyze many problems such as educational, organizational or market dilemma.
This paper introduces the logic of modeling hierarchical linear equations and
estimation based on MPlus software. I present my own model to illustrate the
impact of different factors on school acceptation level.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0605129v1
Authors: Magdalena Jelonek
Published Date: 2006-05-16T08:21:03Z

Title: On the suitability of the 2 x 2 games for studying reciprocal
  cooperation and kin selection
Summary:   The 2 x 2 games, in particular the Prisoner's Dilemma, have been extensively
used in studies into reciprocal cooperation and, to a lesser extent, kin
selection. This paper examines the suitability of the 2 x 2 games for modelling
the evolution of cooperation through reciprocation and kin selection. This
examination is not restricted to the Prisoner's Dilemma, but includes the other
non-trivial symmetric 2 x 2 games. We show that the popularity of the
Prisoner's Dilemma for modelling social and biotic interaction is justified by
its superiority according to these criteria. Indeed, the Prisoner's Dilemma is
unique in providing the simplest support for reciprocal cooperation, and
additive kin-selected altruism. However, care is still required in choosing the
particular Prisoner's Dilemma payoff matrix to use. This paper reviews the
impact of non-linear payoffs for the application of Hamilton's rule to typical
altruistic interactions, and derives new results for cases in which the roles
of potential altruist and beneficiary are separated. In doing so we find the
same equilibrium condition holds in continuous games between relatives, and in
discrete games with roles.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0306128v3
Authors: James A. R. Marshall
Published Date: 2003-06-24T14:13:46Z

Title: Assessing the Impact of Student Learning Style Preferences
Summary:   Students express a wide range of preferences for learning environments. We
are trying to measure the manifestation of learning styles in various learning
environments. In particular, we are interested in performance in an environment
that disagrees with the expressed learning style preference, paying close
attention to social (group vs. individual) and auditory (those who prefer to
learn by listening) environments. These are particularly relevant to
activity-based curricula which typically emphasize group-work and de-emphasize
lectures. Our methods include multiple-choice assessments, individual student
interviews, and a study in which we attempt to isolate the learning
environment.

Paper ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0608296v1
Authors: Stacey M. Davis, Scott V. Franklin
Published Date: 2006-08-30T14:38:35Z

